**Step 1 - Generating the Application**
---------------------------------------

At the end of the tutorial, you will have created an Alarms and Events
Client that will be able to receive events from the supplied demo
server.

This section describes how to generate an application by using the
`Project Wizard <c2dd4578-aa68-4ba7-bf5b-4da879baaa29.htm>`__ of the
Softing OPC Toolkit V4.4x.

First, you need to create a new project by selecting the “Project
Wizard” from the start menu folder “Programs \| Softing OPC Toolkit
V4.4x”. The Application Assistant shown in the figure below opens. On
the first page of the wizard select the Microsoft Windows operating
system.

Bild
====

Then select the used programming language which is C++ in this case. #
Bild

In the next page select the development environment. In this tutorial
Microsoft Visual Studio 2010 will be used.

.. _bild-1:

Bild
====

Type the name of the OPC client project and the location where it should
be created. Note that the directory path must be a valid one. In case
the directory path doesn’t exist, a message error will block you from
going further.

.. _bild-2:

Bild
====

Next the OPC specification must be chosen. We want to create an Alarms
and Events client so please choose the OPC Alarm and Events
specification.

.. _bild-3:

Bild
====

Choose the application type as being Console.

.. _bild-4:

Bild
====

Choose the compiler settings.

.. _bild-5:

Bild
====

For the tutorial, we do not want the wizard to automatically create a
client that receives events. In the next steps, we will make what is
necessary to receive them.

.. _bild-6:

Bild
====

Review all the settings using the last page and then press **Finish**.

.. _bild-7:

Bild
====

After the Project Wizard has generated the source code, you have a
compilable, executable OPC Client. However, it does not do anything yet
because this is what we are going to do in next steps.
